Exploring NCAA Data with BigQuery
45 minutes
Free
GSP160
Google Cloud Self-Paced Labs

Overview
BigQuery is Google's fully managed, NoOps, low cost analytics database. With BigQuery you can query terabytes and terabytes of data without managing infrastructure or needing a database administrator. BigQuery uses SQL and takes advantage of the pay-as-you-go model. BigQuery allows you to focus on analyzing data to find meaningful insights.

We have a newly available dataset for NCAA Basketball games, teams, and players. The game data covers play-by-play and box scores back to 2009, as well as final scores back to 1996. Additional data about wins and losses goes back to the 1894-5 season in some teams' cases.

In this lab we will find and query the NCAA dataset using BigQuery.

What you'll learn
Using BigQuery

Query the NCAA Public Dataset

Writing and executing queries

What you'll need
A Google Cloud Project

A Browser, such Chrome or Firefox

Setup and Requirements
Before you click the Start Lab button
Read these instructions. Labs are timed and you cannot pause them. The timer, which starts when you click Start Lab, shows how long Google Cloud resources will be made available to you.

This hands-on lab lets you do the lab activities yourself in a real cloud environment, not in a simulation or demo environment. It does so by giving you new, temporary credentials that you use to sign in and access Google Cloud for the duration of the lab.

What you need
To complete this lab, you need:

Access to a standard internet browser (Chrome browser recommended).
Time to complete the lab.
Note: If you already have your own personal Google Cloud account or project, do not use it for this lab.

Note: If you are using a Chrome OS device, open an Incognito window to run this lab.

How to start your lab and sign in to the Google Cloud Console
Click the Start Lab button. If you need to pay for the lab, a pop-up opens for you to select your payment method. On the left is a panel populated with the temporary credentials that you must use for this lab.

Open Google Console

Copy the username, and then click Open Google Console. The lab spins up resources, and then opens another tab that shows the Sign in page.

Sign in

Tip: Open the tabs in separate windows, side-by-side.

If you see the Choose an account page, click Use Another Account. Choose an account
In the Sign in page, paste the username that you copied from the left panel. Then copy and paste the password.

Important: You must use the credentials from the left panel. Do not use your Google Cloud Training credentials. If you have your own Google Cloud account, do not use it for this lab (avoids incurring charges).

Click through the subsequent pages:

Accept the terms and conditions.
Do not add recovery options or two-factor authentication (because this is a temporary account).
Do not sign up for free trials.

Ist Task

Create the Notebook instance
In the Search products and resources bar (at the top of the console page), type notebooks and click Notebooks AI Platform.
Click + NEW NOTEBOOK.
Select Python 3.
Click CREATE.
Wait for the Notebook instance to start, this takes a few minutes.

Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Create the Notebook instance

